Title: Cooperation
Date: 2016-12-11 16:39

It has been some time since I've read "Multiagent Systems". I've never got the the last two chapters due to the use of mathematical logic which I've never seen before. Maybe I should revisit it. The book was highly interesting, destroying my hopes in an easy mathematical model of group decision making and really solidified by example the various tensions that can occur between different actors in the same "game".

There are pitfalls of modeling scenarios in the real world as a game as with all modeling. But proposing a model and then iteratively refining it with observations is a way to gain a deeper understanding of the world so I'll take the risk for now. One scenario is modeling scenarios where payoffs only happen in the end and this is contingent on the cooperation of both parties. Really this is a precarious scenario if one party's payoff is completely dependent on what amounts to basically the good will of the the other party. There is no good strategy to play other than hope that the other party doesn't demand too much of you in order to get your payoff. Dealing with people who abuse this really leaves a bad taste in my mouth. Because you are now owned by the other party (insofar as you value the reward they will give you).

I'm not sure what to do really. One of the things about game theory was to make me give up hope in some circumstances. No matter how you play these types of games the other party can fuck you over without any repercussions (without extreme escalation which very few would resort to). So I've just been trying to avoid such situations, investing as less as I can into such things and trying harder in my life to make sure that if I do have to take such losses inadvertently then I have enough to get out of such losses.

Sometimes life and other people just fuck you over. I've accepted this. But I have to remember to act on this knowledge. This is one of the bigger optimizations that I can make since it deals with some of the nastiest situations a person can get into. So I'll have to learn how to discern these situations before they occur and avoid them. It is okay to be more stringent here. Its like taking care of yourself so you don't get sick: when you get sick its too late.
