Title: Endgame Part 3
Date: 2016-12-11 16:39

I finished my graph theory exam on Friday. I made a few mistakes but overall I solved all questions. I'm feeling pretty good about it. I'm slowly moving away from trying to get high grades in everything and instead focusing on learning more things by reading textbooks and just coding. Really reading over the notes of these courses doesn't really teach much and gets demoralizing over time.

I'm trying to slowly reform my worldview so it is more accurate but also faster. I think one way to do this is to continually read so that the mind often encounters new situations which cannot be resolved by the current system. Then the mind can try to adapt the system to handle the situation. But of course, some problems are insurmountable and thinking about them at depth without much of a handle on it is like a brute force search for solutions without revealing much insight about the problem. So I'm still trying to find a way to obtain a steady stream of improvement. I used to read [Aeon](aeon.co) often but its not really a steady stream (some articles about history bore me. Some of the ethics articles don't present convincing arguments). I guess I can frequent Hacker news more for technology related topics. But I guess for big reformations I'll have to hit the books. One thing that I have realized is that having a guide through a book is really useful for understanding the content. Some books are dense and indigestible though they contain very powerful information ("bombs"). Only through introspection and hard consideration are these books ("nuclear stockpiles") accessible. Of course thats a fine price to pay considering the gains. But I have to approach these with the right mindset or else the information will just sail right past me.

My energy levels have been good recently ever since I've recovered from the cold. I'm thinking of creating a logging category because these posts seem banal and really if I do produce good content then I'll want those to be labeled somehow.
