Title: Planning Time
Date: 2016-11-17 9:22
Category: Planning, Procrastination
I created this blog to keep me motivated to work hard. By letting everyone see what I've accomplished so far they can fit a local curve to where I should be in some short but significant time interval. Then I will feel some pressure to meet their expectations and become better. If I do become worse, then I can see this in evidence and then try to make things better instead of being in denial ("its not THAT bad"). Though some of the things I do will be risky and not yield any outcome for a long while (and may not even do anything in the end), by exposing them explicitly I won't forget why I'm doing them and how I calculated the reward/risk which let me take the decision.

So why did I choose to write this instead of a journal? I noticed that in my journal my audience is only myself so my writing style never improves. As I publish more of these articles I'll read over them and realize how terrible the style is and then want to slowly improve my writing (since I'll be rereading the articles to check on my progress).

Currently I'm in my 3A term at Waterloo in a CS and CO double major. I have a lot of work ahead of me so I decided to preemptively procrastinate by creating this blog to replace the edgelord site that I had previously. Then as more posts come along I can invest more and more into the website as I see it is worth it. I've realized that motivation is a huge bottleneck for me so that is one way to overcome some situations where motivation is lacking is by careful reward/risk analysis. Investing only enough time to get a result where its efficient to add pieces at a time and not all at once is very good for such a mindset. Then the feedback from the task adds back to the motivation levels allowing more work to be done. This allows me to avoid things like starting on something and feeling made halfway because I didn't feel like I did jack shit for the day since I have nothing to show. Also this may make me more efficient by quiantifying things, though there is the overhead of quantification.

And my writing is still terrible. There was no coherent organization in the last paragraph. Just a fucking mind-dump. I got too used to writing journals like this that this has become my style. Well, the journey of 1000 li starts with one step... onto an airplane which flies you the whole way.
