Title: Endgame
Date: 2016-11-26 12:03

I need to focus down now that my next work term is coming. I really don't like days when I don't accomplish much. I realize how important time is and I need to keep on reminding myself of it to get motivation to do the things I want. Really I get complacent by looking at how well my life is going and then I don't see that if I don't stop getting better then I'll stop being good. Accepting boredom now allows you to minimize boredom later on in life. Of course there are criticisms of this philosophy but having an enjoyable job really takes the fucking cake as you spend half your awake day working so it better be good. So you optimize your hobbies or your work. Optimizing your work is a riskier bet because you might not get the job you want but if you get a job where you can learn and so get to the job you want (as a developer would) then it limits the risk. Optimizing hobbies doesn't work for all people for a variety of reasons: some hobbies take an extraordinary amount of effort which means you can't do them too often (so in proportion to your work they make up only that much, and so might not offset the pain of work). Another problem is that after work you might be too tired to pursue your hobby with the energy necessary for your happiness.

But for those people who pursue their hobbies and work at the same time, you've done great. I guess my only hobby that I would like is playing piano, since I'm somewhat proficient (at least technically) and enjoy music. But really I can't practice for too long and it is frustrating at time. Like frustrating without rewarda dn it just makes me more depressed. I've gotten used to reading books and the joy of understanding concepts which usually just require some hard thinking (though as things get more advanced, this might be less possible). I guess I can simply learn new pieces if I can't learn the current one. So the main problem with playing piano is the time constraint on playing it, while for intellectual activities you can go at it for four hours a day without fatigue (spaced out through the day of course).

But of course the intellectual activities matter. I've been trying to get through Diestel but its fucking dense as shit and as frustrating as playing the piano. Some of the sentences don't make sense at all. So recently I've been following the Big Data Infrastructure [course](http://lintool.github.io/bigdata-2016w/index.html), where the information is pretty mellow and I can be happy that I'm learning something (though obviously they talk over the slides so some important information is lost). I plan to do the assignments if the Java doesn't kill me. I don't have access to a cluster but I guess I can learn how to do that with Amazon EC2. I only have to spin them up when I need them so it shouldn't cost that much. I literally don't care about using this for a side project so all the anxiety associated with such things is gone. I used to have this anxiety where I have to do things perfectly in order to match up to people's expectations but really it was just a load of nonsense in my head. Imperfect is better than not done at all. After all, I'm doing these things for my own learning. If I deploy to production I'll have to do more screening anyways. But for me to even have something to deploy I'll need to learn the tools. So fuck everything, do what I like... but also try to get interested in the things that are important.

There is a kind of conflict within me. There are things which I'm naturally interested in but there are things which I develop interest in because they are related to those things which I'm interested in. But then I find out that I'm interested in those things as well. Is there a hidden vector of my interests which gets realized in the things I learn? How should I best search the space of such things? If the landscape of interest changes what policy should I follow to adjust. These types of things are studied in optimization and really there are many heuristics for search (local search especially, since that is basically what I'm doing). I should see how they can be applied to my everyday life (if they even can) and then accept the necessary limits of my ability to search.

I've decided not to get a new laptop for now. This is more of a financial decision: I don't want to spend any money until I get paid by Disney. Then I'll feel more comfortable spending money.
